fix: document Heap Ordering and Double Linked List (#118)
morpho-org/morpho-data-structures: README.md

# Morpho Data Structures 🦋

> This repository contains the data structures that can be used for Morpho's matching engine 🦋.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains the data structures that are used in Morpho's matching engine.
```

> The goal is to compare them in terms of security and gas consumption to find the best solution for the protocol and its users.

Reviewer: Weird

# Data structures

The data structures we implement and modified are based on the public works of amazing developers. We thank them for what they have done 🙏

You can refer to the following table for the complexity of some data structures.

> ![complexities](https://devopedia.org/images/article/17/7752.1513922040.jpg)

Reviewer: We should get rid of this subsection IMO

## Red Black Binary Tree

A [Red Black Binary Tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red%E2%80%93black_tree) is a kind of binary tree that allows insertion/deletion/search in `O(log(n))`.
Our implementation is a modified version of the [OrderStatisticsTree repository](https://github.com/rob-Hitchens/OrderStatisticsTree) written by [Rob Hitechn](https://github.com/rob-Hitchens) which is also based on [BokkyPooBahsRedBlackTreeLibrary repository](https://github.com/bokkypoobah/BokkyPooBahsRedBlackTreeLibrary) written by [bokkypoobah](https://github.com/bokkypoobah).
Our modified version makes keys unique items instead of just (key, value) unique pairs.

In order to manipulate a binary tree and visualize how it manages to stay balanced, this [tool](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/RedBlack.html) is very useful. You can also find [here](http://ion.uwinnipeg.ca/~ychen2/advancedAD/Red-black%20Tree.pdf) the pseudo-code logic of the tree's function.

## Heap based ordering

This implementation is based on a heap data structure and refines it by adding an unsorted portion after it. This gives us an approximation of a heap, and thus operations are performed in constant time.

> At least the first 'maxSortedUsers'/2 addresses are sorted in the Heap. To keep constant time operation, we divide by two the size of the Heap once the size overtakes the 'maxSortedUsers' number. It means that we remove all leaves of the heap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At least the first `maxSortedUsers / 2` addresses are sorted in the Heap. To keep constant time operation, we divide by two the size of the Heap once the size overtakes the `maxSortedUsers` number. It means that we remove all leaves of the heap.
```

> The choice of this implementation is explained by our desire to store a maximum of high-value nodes in the heap to use them for peer-to-peer matching.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The choice of this implementation is explained by the desire to store a maximum of high-value nodes in the heap to use them for peer-to-peer matching.
```

> Indeed, a naive implementation that would remove the tail and insert new values at 'maxSortedUsers' (once the heap is full), would end up concentrating all new values on the same single path from the leaf to the root node because the ShiftUp function will be always called from the same node. The risk is that low-value nodes stay in the Heap and that all the liquidity will be concentrated on the path from the leaf of index 'maxSortedUsers' to the root.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indeed, a naive implementation that would remove the tail and insert new values at `maxSortedUsers` (once the heap is full), would end up concentrating all new values on the same single path from the leaf to the root node because the ShiftUp function will be always called from the same node. The risk is that low-value nodes stay in the Heap and that all the liquidity will be concentrated on the path from the leaf of index 'maxSortedUsers' to the root.
```

> Indeed, a naive implementation that would remove the tail and insert new values at `maxSortedUsers` (once the heap is full), would end up concentrating all new values on the same single path from the leaf to the root node because the ShiftUp function will be always called from the same node. The risk is that low-value nodes stay in the Heap and that all the liquidity will be concentrated on the path from the leaf of index 'maxSortedUsers' to the root.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Indeed, a naive implementation that would remove the tail and insert new values at `maxSortedUsers` (once the heap is full), would end up concentrating all new values on the same single path from the leaf to the root node because the `shiftUp` function will be always called from the same node. The risk is that low-value nodes stay in the Heap and that all the liquidity will be concentrated on the path from the leaf of index 'maxSortedUsers' to the root.
```

> Removing all the leaves enables the protocol to remove low-value nodes and to call the ShiftUp function at different locations in the Heap. This process therefore keeps a maximum of liquidity available in the heap for peer-to-peer lending

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Removing all the leaves enables the protocol to remove low-value nodes and to call the ShiftUp function at different locations in the Heap. This process is meant to keep a maximum of liquidity available in the heap for peer-to-peer lending.
```

> Removing all the leaves enables the protocol to remove low-value nodes and to call the ShiftUp function at different locations in the Heap. This process is meant to keep a maximum of liquidity available in the heap for peer-to-peer lending.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Removing all the leaves enables the protocol to remove low-value nodes and to call the `shiftUp` function at different locations in the Heap. This process is meant to keep a maximum of liquidity available in the heap for peer-to-peer lending.
```

## Double Linked List

The current implementation of the double linked list is based on this [article](https://hackernoon.com/a-linked-list-implementation-for-ethereum-deep-dive-oy9432pa) written by Alberto Cuesta Cañada. You can find the repository [here](https://github.com/HQ20/contracts/tree/master/contracts/lists). Note that the code has been modified to meet our own needs and to allow us to sort the first accounts of the double linked list. Our implementation is not a generalized one.
What you can do with it:

- Insert an address sorted by a value passed along this address.

> - Insert (and its value) before an account.

Author: I am wondering what do you to say here?

Reviewer 4: not sure to get what you mean

Author: I forget the word want.

## Testing

The tests can be run with [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry).

For the `RedBlackBinaryTree`, you can run the tests with hardhat with `yarn test`.

## Creating issues and PRs

Guidelines for creating issues and PRs:

- Issues must be created and labeled with relevant labels (type of issues, high/medium/low priority, etc.).
- Nothing should be pushed directly to the `main` branch.
- Pull requests must be created before and branch names must follow this pattern: `feat/<feature-name>`, `test/<test-name>` or `fix/<fix-name>`. `docs`, `ci` can also be used. The goal is to have clear branches' names and make easier their management.
- PRs must be labeled with the relevant labels.
- Issues must be linked to PRs so that once the PR is merged related issues are closed at the same time.
- Reviewers must be added to the PR.

> - For commits, we use the bitmoji VS Code extension 🙃

Reviewer: Opening a debate here: is it useful to have this in the README. Considering the number of OS contributors that we have, I feel that these precisions cause more harm than good.

Reviewer 4: I think we can just keep that we should use conventional commits.

Reviewer: I was talking about the whole "issues and PRs" subsection

Author: I think we can make it just shorter and simpler to say that we use conventional commits as said by Merlin.
